DOCS-5460 Update organizations overview to better explain orgs and org features (#876)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/organizations/overview.mdx

2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations Settings**.
3. Toggle on **Enable Organizations**.

Once organizations are enabled, you will be presented with the default settings, roles, and permissions that are applied to all organizations in that application instance. The following sections will explain these settings in more detail.

### Roles and permissions

Roles determine a user's level of access and permissions within an organization. [Learn more about how roles and permissions work and how to create your own with Clerk.](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions)

### Default membership limit

There is no limit to the number of organizations a user can be a member of.

However, there is a limit to how many members total can be in a single organization. By default, the membership limit is set to 5 members. To change this limit, scroll to the **Default membership limit** section and update the membership limit.

If you are on the Free plan, you can update the membership limit to a maximum of 5 members.

If you have the Pro plan, you can set the membership limit to unlimited.

> You can also change this limit on a per-organization basis:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also change this limit on a per-organization basis.
```
Changing to a period because the instructions are already added above with my suggestion

> 1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations).

Reviewer: With my edit above we can drop these instructions

Author: not exactly. this section lives under the "Enable organizations in your application" section - which guides the user thru that process in the `/organizations-settings` of the clerk dashboard. if they want to change the limit on a per-organization basis, they would have to go to `/organizations`, a different section of the dashboard.

2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations**.
3. Select the organization you want to update.
4. In the **Membership limit** section, update the membership limit.

### Default ability to delete

> By default, organizations are deletable. Any member with the "Delete organization" permission can delete an organization. To prevent organizations from being deleted, you can disable the ability to delete organizations by scrolling to the **Default ability to delete** section and unchecking the option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, any member with the "Delete organization" permission can delete an organization. To prevent organizations from being deleted, uncheck the **Default ability to delete** option in [your organization settings in the Clerk dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations).
```

Author: This isn't correct though, this setting is in `/organization-settings`, which is the section the user is are already in from following the guide

The easiest way to allow users to switch between their personal account and their organization account is to use Clerk's [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) component. Once a user selects an organization, that organization is set as the active organization.

## Organization invitations

Organization invitations are a way to invite users to join an organization. When a user is invited to an organization, they will receive an email with a link to accept the invitation. Once they accept the invitation, they will be added as a member of the organization.

By default, only admins can invite users to an organization.

This feature requires that **Email address** is enabled as an [identifier](/docs/authentication/configuration/sign-up-sign-in-options#identifiers), as Clerk uses the user's email address to send the invitation. You can still disable **Email address** as an authentication option if you do not want users to be able to sign-in with their email address.

> To configure your application's **Email address** settings:

Reviewer: We should have a doc or section of the docs dedicated to email stuff so we could link to it in situations like this. Feels kinda odd to have instructions for accessing email settings in the organizations overview. This can be bad because down the line if these instructions change, instead of having one central place to update, these steps may be in scattered places like this and end up forgotten.

For now, we'll just have to leave it, as consolidating all the email stuff into a concrete doc/guide/whatever is a whole other can of worms. I just wanted to point it out

4. Next to **Email address**, select the settings cog icon to configure the email address settings. Here, at least **Require** should be toggled on.

## Organization management

As the application owner, you have control over all of the organizations within your application - both those created by you and those created by your users. You can create, update, and delete organizations, as well as manage their members and settings.

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations**. Here, you can view and manage all organizations within your application.
3. Select a specific organization to view its details, members, and settings. Here, you can update the organization's name, slug, and logo. You can also set the organization's [membership limit](#how-many-organizations-can-i-create) and public and private metadata.

For managing organizations in your application, Clerk provides a set of prebuilt components:

- [`<CreateOrganization />`](/docs/components/organization/create-organization) - A form for a user to create a new organization.

> - [`<OrganizationProfile />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-profile) - A profile page for the user's currently active organization. Out of the box, this component's **General** tab displays the organization's information and the **Leave organization** button. Admins will be able to see the **Update profile** button, **Verified domains** section, and **Delete organization** button. The **Members** tab shows the organization's members along with their join dates and roles. Admins will have the ability to invite a member, change a member's role, or remove them from the organization. Admins will have tabs within the **Members** tab to view the organization's invitations and requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`<OrganizationProfile />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-profile) - A profile page for the user's currently active organization.
```

I know this is an aggressive cut, but IMO we should leave the detailed info about these components in their respective docs or guides, and should just link to them from an overview. I think an overview shouldn't get too detailed, and having this information here instead of somewhere more specific, or both here _and_ somewhere more specific, is a little more confusing an experience for users.

What do you think?

Author: So could we move this to the introductory paragraph of the [component reference](https://clerk.com/docs/components/organization/organization-profile)? Because it needs to be thoroughly laid out to users how the component works out of the box, so they can understand its purpose and what it can be used for before implementing it into their app. Also helps create awareness of all the features that are available!

Reviewer: I personally think that would be better yes because it creates a central location for this info that we can link to from everywhere

- [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) - A dropdown menu that allows a user to switch between their personal account and their organization account(s). Out of the box, this component will show notifications to the user if they have organization invitations or suggestions. Admins will be able to see notifications for requests to join an organization.
- [`<OrganizationList />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-list) - A list of organizations that a user is a member of.

> If Clerk's prebuilt components don't meet your specific needs or if you require more control over the logic, you can rebuild the existing Clerk flows using the Clerk API. Currently, there are guides available for:

Author: good point!

- [Creating an organization](/docs/organizations/creating-organizations)
- [Updating an organization](/docs/organizations/updating-organizations)
- [Creating an infinite paginated list of memberships](/docs/organizations/viewing-memberships)
- [Inviting users to an organization](/docs/organizations/inviting-users), which also includes code for creating a custom list of invitations
- [Managing memberships](/docs/organizations/managing-roles), which includes code for updating and deleting a user's membership, for inviting a user, and for creating a custom list of memberships, invitations, and requests

> ## Frequently asked questions (FAQ)

Reviewer: This is not a blocking comment at all, but I'm personally anti FAQs in the docs in most (not all) scenarios. This [quote](https://medium.com/bts-design-team/heres-a-frequently-asked-question-for-you-are-faqs-all-bad-ebc37a746f12) summarizes it for me:

> [FAQs] duplicate information that — if it really matters to your users — should form part of a wider well-structured, user-centric journey on your site. They also create content overhead: an FAQ needs to be monitored and maintained and risks confusing users if you don’t keep it up to date. The problem of FAQs really shows in search, where you will end up with duplicate results competing for attention. You are fighting with your own content.

I'm aware we probably use FAQs across the docs, and our non-docs team members love them because they reduce the burden of having to think about content design and structure, but in future I'd like us to try to avoid them by asking "Where are users going to look for this information? How can I make sure it's there, instead of in one crowded place?"

Author: Good point ! We can remove it

> ### How many organizations can a user belong to?

Reviewer: We already answer this in a dedicated membership limit section, so we can cut it

# Organizations

> Organizations play a crucial role in structuring user management within your application, particularly in B2B, B2B2C, and collaborative environments. Think of a platform like GitHub Teams, or even departments within a company - organizations are a way to group and manage users and their access to resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organizations are a way to group and manage users and their access to resources within your Clerk application. They are particularly useful in B2B, B2B2C, and collaborative environments.
```

This is a great intro 👍. However, the two sentences repeat each other:

> Organizations play a crucial role in structuring user management within your application
and
> ... organizations are a way to group and manage users and their access to resources

My edit rearranges the information so the first sentence states directly what they are, and the second sentence describes the contexts in which they're useful.

Author: oh yeah I like this a lot better!

> By utilizing organizations, you can assign specific roles and permissions to users, allowing you to finely control access to different parts of your application. Whether you are managing projects, coordinating teams, or facilitating partnerships, organizations offer a flexible and scalable way to structure user access and permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

No longer necessary due to above edit.

<Callout type="info">
  To explore organizations in Clerk, check out this demo repo:
  https://github.com/clerk/organizations-demo
</Callout>

## Enable organizations in your application

Organizations are disabled by default.

To enable organizations:

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations-settings).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations Settings**.
3. Toggle on **Enable Organizations**.

> Once organizations are enabled, you will be presented with the default settings, roles, and permissions that are applied to all organizations in that application instance. The following sections will explain these settings in more detail.

Reviewer: Beautiful summarization

### Roles and permissions

> Roles determine a user's level of access and permissions within an organization. [Learn more about how roles and permissions work and how to create your own with Clerk.](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Roles determine a user's level of access and permissions within an organization. [Learn more about how roles and permissions work and how to create your own with Clerk](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions).
```

IDK why but most people prefer the period outside the link, and I think in most of the docs we do that, so 🤷 let's just do it here

Author: that's so funny you caught this too ! I sat doing back and forth and looking at it in preview, and I was like idk which looks better 🤔 imo, I think it's better on the inside because when it's rendered, the text is highlight purple but the period is highlighted the text colour (white) and it looks funny.

Reviewer: That's fine with me 👍 Let's leave it inside

> ### Default membership limit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Membership limit
```
This section is about the membership limit in general

There is no limit to the number of organizations a user can be a member of.

> However, there is a limit to how many members total can be in a single organization. By default, the membership limit is set to 5 members. To change this limit, scroll to the **Default membership limit** section and update the membership limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there is a limit to how many members total can be in a single organization. By default, the membership limit is 5 members. To change this limit:

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations-settings).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations Settings**.
3. Scroll to the **Default membership limit** section and update the membership limit.
```
I think we need to give detailed instructions, as a user may be linked directly to this section and not know how to get to this setting

Author: aghh, but this is a section under the "Once organizations are enabled, you will be presented with the default settings, roles, and permissions that are applied to all organizations in that application instance. The following sections will explain these settings in more detail." so the instructions are very redundant, because they are right above. when a user follows the instructions above to enables organization, they are presented with this option in the settings page.

so this is where the idea of each of these sections should really be their own guides, comes into play LOL

Author: This isn't correct though. You can edit the default membership limit in `/organizations-settings` to set the default membership limit FOR ALL organizations in your application.
You can then also edit the membership limit PER organization in `/organizations`, a totally different section in the dashboard. 
That's why I wrote it the way that I did.

### Roles and permissions

Roles determine a user's level of access and permissions within an organization. [Learn more about how roles and permissions work and how to create your own with Clerk.](/docs/organizations/roles-permissions)

### Membership limit

There is no limit to the number of organizations a user can be a member of.

However, there is a limit to how many members total can be in a single organization. By default, the membership limit is set to 5 members. To change this limit, scroll to the **Default membership limit** section and update the membership limit.

If you are on the Free plan, you can update the membership limit to a maximum of 5 members.

If you have the Pro plan, you can set the membership limit to unlimited.

You can also change this limit on a per-organization basis:

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations**.
3. Select the organization you want to update.
4. In the **Membership limit** section, update the membership limit.

> ### Default ability to delete

Reviewer 2: I know something that our customers have run into in the past is assuming this setting applies to existing organizations (this is also true for the membership limit). Is this something we want to call out in the docs?

Reviewer 3: Correct

The easiest way to allow users to switch between their personal account and their organization account is to use Clerk's [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) component. Once a user selects an organization, that organization is set as the active organization.

You can also use the `setActive()` method, which is available on the [`Clerk`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/session-methods#set-active) object and is returned by the [`useOrganizationList()`](/docs/references/react/use-organization-list) hook.

## Create an organization

### Application owner

You can create organizations in the Clerk Dashboard or in your application. To create an organization in the Clerk Dashboard:

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations**.
3. Select the **Create Organization** button.
4. Enter the organization's name and slug. The slug is a unique identifier for the organization and is used in URLs. Select the organization's owner from the list of users in your application. The owner is the user who will be the organization's admin.

> The number of monthly active organizations (MAOs) you can create depends on your [Clerk plan](/pricing).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The number of organizations you can create depends on your [Clerk plan](/pricing), and is measured by "monthly active organizations" (MAOs) - this means an organization with more than one user that has signed in that month.
```

> With the Free plan, you can create up to 100 MAOs across your entire account. Each MAO can have up to 5 members. So if you have 20 different Clerk applications, each of them can have 5 organizations (100 total across your account).

Reviewer 3: I don't think this total account thing is the case, but I may be wrong. Plans are not per-account, they are per-app. I'm pretty sure this is per-app

> With the Free plan, you can create up to 100 MAOs across your entire account. Each MAO can have up to 5 members. So if you have 20 different Clerk applications, each of them can have 5 organizations (100 total across your account).

Reviewer 3: Confirmed that it's per app. Will update the suggestion

> With the Pro plan, you can create up to 100 MAOs across your entire account. Each MAO after the first 100 costs $1.00 per month. Each MAO can have an unlimited number of members. So if you have 20 applications, each of them can have 5 organizations (100 total across your account), and then each additional organization costs $1.00 per month.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the Pro plan, you can create up to 100 MAOs across your entire account. Each MAO after the first 100 costs $1.00 per month. Each MAO can have an unlimited number of members. As an example, if you have 20 applications, each with 6 organizations, you'd have 120 total across your account, which would cost an extra $20/month, on top of the base Pro plan pricing at $25/month.

For more details on pricing, see [our pricing page](https://clerk.com/pricing).
```

> If you need more organizations, please contact [our sales team](https://clerk.com/contact/sales) to upgrade to the Enterprise plan.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need more organizations or custom pricing, please contact [our sales team](https://clerk.com/contact/sales) to upgrade to the Enterprise plan.
```

### Application user

Users can create organizations within your application. When a user creates an organization, they become the organization's admin. As the organization's admin, they have full control over the organization, including the ability to update the organization's settings, invite users to join the organization, and manage the organization's members.

A user within one of your applications can create up to 100 organizations in that application. This limit is separate from the number of [organizations *you* can create](#application-owner) across your entire account.

> The easiest way to allow users to create organizations is to use Clerk's [`<CreateOrganization />`](/docs/components/organization/create-organization) component. This component provides a form for users to create a new organization.

Reviewer 3: Organization switcher also allows creation, and is often the onramp to this ability

## Organization management

As the application owner, you have control over all of the organizations within your application - both those created by you and those created by your users. You can create, update, and delete organizations, as well as manage their members and settings.

1. Navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=organizations).
2. In the navigation sidebar, select **Organizations**. Here, you can view and manage all organizations within your application.
3. Select a specific organization to view its details, members, and settings. Here, you can update the organization's name, slug, and logo. You can also set the organization's [membership limit](#how-many-organizations-can-i-create) and public and private metadata.

For managing organizations in your application, Clerk provides a set of prebuilt components:

- [`<CreateOrganization />`](/docs/components/organization/create-organization) - A form for a user to create a new organization.
- [`<OrganizationProfile />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-profile) - A profile page for the user's currently active organization.

> - [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) - A dropdown menu that allows a user to switch between their personal account and their organization account(s).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) - A dropdown menu that allows a user to switch between their personal account and their organization account(s), as well as create a new organization if they have permission to do so.
```

- [`<OrganizationList />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-list) - A list of organizations that a user is a member of.

> If Clerk's prebuilt components don't meet your specific needs or if you require more control over the logic, you can rebuild the existing Clerk flows using the Clerk API. Some useful guides include:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If Clerk's prebuilt components don't meet your specific needs or if you require more control over the logic, you can rebuild and customize the existing Clerk flows using the Clerk API. Some useful guides include:
```

With the Pro plan:
- In development instances, you can have an unlimited number of MAOs in a single Clerk application *for free*. Each MAO can have an unlimited number of members.
- In production instances, you can have up to 100 MAOs in a single Clerk application *for free*. Each MAO after the first 100 costs $1.00 per month. Each MAO can have an unlimited number of members.

For more details on pricing, see [our pricing page](https://clerk.com/pricing).

If you need more organizations or custom pricing, please contact [our sales team](https://clerk.com/contact/sales) to upgrade to the Enterprise plan.

### Application user

Users can create organizations within your application. When a user creates an organization, they become the organization's admin. As the organization's admin, they have full control over the organization, including the ability to update the organization's settings, invite users to join the organization, and manage the organization's members.

A user within one of your applications can create *up to* 100 organizations in that application. However, the number of [MAOs](#monthly-active-organization-mao) for that application must be kept in mind.

> The easiest way to allow users to create organizations is to use Clerk's [`<CreateOrganization />`](/docs/components/organization/create-organization) and/or [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) components.

Author: I don't see this setting anywhere in the Dashboard, so what exactly would I be referencing to ?
"By default, all users have the ability to create organizations. If you would like to change this, you can add a custom permission... " something like that ??

> The easiest way to allow users to create organizations is to use Clerk's [`<CreateOrganization />`](/docs/components/organization/create-organization) and/or [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) components.

Reviewer 3: <img width="1063" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-15 at 4 33 35 PM" src="https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/556932/5f28a6f9-9b59-43e0-abbe-ed5e64d26510">

It can be found here, kinda buried. It can also be toggled on a per-user basis. The "defaulting" behavior is a bit unintuitive, and is the same as the ability to delete

> The easiest way to allow users to create organizations is to use Clerk's [`<CreateOrganization />`](/docs/components/organization/create-organization) and/or [`<OrganizationSwitcher />`](/docs/components/organization/organization-switcher) components.

Author: just added the info !
